# October

## Coming soon

* 🔎 Support for the **IIIF Content Search API** 
* 🔖 Public **reading lists**
* 📝 A revised **guide to setting up the development environment**

## General

At the user meeting it was hoped that the digests would also be given an outlook. For this reason, we have included the **Coming Soon** section at the very beginning. Here we will report about functionalities that will come but without a concrete time horizon. 

Also new in this digest is the section of **version numbers** at the end. If you want to adapt your theme to the current version yourself with the help of the [changelog](https://docs.intranda.com/goobi-viewer-de/8/8.2), the version numbers are written down there, which have to be entered in the `pom.xml` to get this function state. 

After the Goobi User Meeting we would like to present you a video of the App **Cuby**. The app is being developed as a student assistant project for the collection portal of the Central Custody of the University of Göttingen. She talks about the existing REST and IIIF interfaces with the Goobi viewer. 

We are very happy to see how the Goobi viewer and the content can be used more and more:

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/PpqkCULxYko" %}

## Developments

There were no published developments in October.

## Version numbers

The versions that must be entered in the `pom.xml` of the theme in order to get the functions described in this digest are:

```markup
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.goobi.viewer</groupId>
    <artifactId>viewer-core</artifactId>
    <version>4.0.5</version>
</dependency>
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.goobi.viewer</groupId>
    <artifactId>viewer-core-config</artifactId>
    <version>4.0.1</version>
</dependency>
```

