# April

## Coming soon :rocket:&#x20;

* **Upload** of records
* **Revision** of the **CMS** area
* Innovations in **access restrictions**

## Developments

### Maps

If many markers are to be displayed on a map, markers that are close to each other are grouped together depending on the zoom level. A number indicates how many markers are in the area. If you click on it, the zoom level is increased and you see a more exact position of the markers.

Until now, this logic took place completely in the web browser. The disadvantage of this solution was that all individual positions had to be transferred before the calculation could take place. From about a thousand markers upwards, this led to a slowdown in performance.

In the last few months we have developed a solution that makes it possible to determine on the server side how many markers are in an area. This functionality is included in the current release. It can be switched on or off via new configuration switches. If activated, maps with several thousand markers can be displayed with high performance.

### Goobi viewer Indexer

In the Goobi viewer a Java library for the generation of GeoJSON was replaced, so that several other libraries could be brought up to date. In addition, a bug was identified where threads were not closed.

### Snippets

* For defined IP address ranges in the backend, network and broadcast addresses are now also taken into account.
* The citation links now have an adapted configuration via pattern. This means that the URLs for the citation links can be configured better and special constellations such as ARK identifiers are also possible.
* In the CMS template with the collection listing in the accordion view, it is now possible to sort the collections numerically.

## Version numbers&#x20;

The versions that must be entered in the `pom.xml` of the theme in order to get the functions described in this digest are:

```markup
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.goobi.viewer</groupId>
    <artifactId>viewer-core</artifactId>
    <version>22.04</version>
</dependency>
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.goobi.viewer</groupId>
    <artifactId>viewer-core-config</artifactId>
    <version>22.04</version>
</dependency>
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.goobi.viewer</groupId>
    <artifactId>viewer-connector</artifactId>
    <version>22.04</version>
</dependency>
```

The **Goobi viewer Indexer** has the version number **22.04**

The **Goobi viewer Crowdsourcing Module** has the version number **22.04**
